.TH TAGGINS 1 "11 April 22"
.SH NAME
taggins \- Descriptively tag all of the things.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtaggins\fP [-a|-r|-d] [-f \fIfilepath\fP] [tag ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtaggins\fP takes a stream of paths piped through stdin and performs CRUD operations for a list of descriptive tags.  Tags are a list of single words separated by spaces.  These tags are kept in the metadata for the files themselves allowing portability.  Optionally, you can target a single file at the command line by passing \fB-f\fP \fIfilepath\fP.
If no options are passed \fBtaggins\fP operates in read mode.  In this default mode the complete file path is sent to stdout followed by all tags for that file.
.SS Options
.TP
\fB-a\fP
Add tags.  All tags passed are added to the list of tags on a given file.
.TP
\fB-r\fP
Remove tags.  All tags passed are removed from the list of tags on a given file.
.TP
\fB-d\fP
Delete all tags.  All tags on a given file are removed along with the extended attribute that originally stored them.
.TP
\fB-f\fP
Specify a file.  Operate on the file given at the command line rather than processing files piped through stdin.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xattr(7), setxattr(2), getxattr(2), listxattr(2), removexattr(2)
.SH BUGS
This program operates by maintaining a string of space delimited tags / words in an extended attribute named user.tags.  Extended attributes are available and enabled by default on most (but not all) modern file systems.  \fBTaggins\fP will error out and inform the user if extended attributes are not available for a file.
